Add STREAM receipts (#570)
interledger/rfcs: 0029-stream/0029-stream.md

To avoid storing a 32 byte secret for each connection, a server MAY deterministically generate the shared secret for each connection from a single server secret and a nonce appended to the ILP Address given to a particular client, for example by using an HMAC.

> For each new connection, a server MAY be provided with a pre-shared 32 byte Receipt Secret to generate receipts and 16 byte Receipt Nonce to include in those receipts. To avoid storing these for each connection, a server MAY deterministically append them to the ILP Address given to a particular client. If doing so, the server MUST encrypt the Receipt Secret.

Author: ```suggestion
For each new connection, a server MAY be provided with a pre-shared 32 byte Receipt Secret (to generate receipts) and a 16 byte Receipt Nonce (to include in those receipts). To avoid storing this data for each connection, a Server MAY deterministically append this data to the ILP Address used for a Connection. If doing so, the server MUST encrypt the Receipt Secret.
```

> For each new connection, a server MAY be provided with a pre-shared 32 byte Receipt Secret to generate receipts and 16 byte Receipt Nonce to include in those receipts. To avoid storing these for each connection, a server MAY deterministically append them to the ILP Address given to a particular client. If doing so, the server MUST encrypt the Receipt Secret.

Reviewer: LGTM!

Money can be sent for a given stream by sending an ILP Prepare packet with a non-zero `amount` and a `StreamMoney` frame in the STREAM packet to indicate which stream the money is for. A single ILP Prepare can carry value destined for multiple streams and the `shares` field in each of the `StreamMoney` frames indicates what portion of the Prepare amount should go to each stream.

> The receiver SHOULD include `StreamReceipt` frames in the ILP Fulfill packet indicating the total amount of money received in each stream, unless a secret key with which to generate receipts was not pre-shared with the receiver. Receipts can be verified, in order to confirm payment, using the pre-shared secret.

Reviewer 2: A Receipt Secret to generate receipts and a Receipt Nonce to include in those receipts. Also did we land on whether there's a required length for the Receipt Secret & Receipt Nonce? Might make sense to say they're both 32 bytes to prevent someone from DoSing an SPSP server with a massive Receipt Secret

Author: Right now, it's 16 byte nonce and 32 byte secret (https://github.com/interledger/rfcs/pull/570/files#diff-0bbc536b39826341170954e2675f765cR72-R73).
Is it worth making the nonce 32 bytes?

Reviewer 2: Well for the nonce we only need uniqueness, given it's public. So 16 is probably fine. 32 byte secret is good because it's often gonna be output of sha256. I think those values are good, but open to hear any other opinions

Money can be sent for a given stream by sending an ILP Prepare packet with a non-zero `amount` and a `StreamMoney` frame in the STREAM packet to indicate which stream the money is for. A single ILP Prepare can carry value destined for multiple streams and the `shares` field in each of the `StreamMoney` frames indicates what portion of the Prepare amount should go to each stream.

> The receiver SHOULD include `StreamReceipt` frames in the ILP Fulfill packet indicating the total amount of money received in each stream, unless a Receipt Secret and Receipt Nonce were not pre-shared with the receiver. Receipts can be verified, in order to confirm payment, using the Receipt Secret.

Reviewer 2: I think it's worth explaining a little bit how this works because I think the first thing someone reading this will get tripped up on is that the verifying party (who they may imagine to be the sender) can sign new receipts.

Something like: "To use STREAM receipts, the Receipt Secret is pre-shared between the verifier and the receiver. The sender presents the STREAM receipts to the verifier, which the verifier can trust because only verifier and receiver know the Receipt Secret."

Author: included more details in https://github.com/interledger/rfcs/pull/570/commits/694f2d7ed1ec71a69e708dc1c15eb46dcc8f7768

Asset details exposed by this frame MUST NOT change during the lifetime of a Connection.

#### 5.3.15. `StreamReceipt` Frame

| Field | Type | Description |
|---|---|---|
| Stream ID | VarUInt | Identifier of the stream this frame refers to. |
| Receipt | 65-Byte OctetString | Proof provided by the receiver of the total amount received on this stream |

The `Receipt` MUST contain the following fields encoded using the [Octet Encoding Rules (OER)](http://www.oss.com/asn1/resources/books-whitepapers-pubs/Overview_of_OER.pdf):

| Field | Type | Description |
|---|---|---|

> | HMAC | UInt256 | HMAC-SHA256 over all other fields using a secret pre-shared between the verifying party and the receiver. |

Reviewer 2: we should explicitly name this pre-shared secret the Receipt Secret and be explicit that it's an additional optional parameter to create a STREAM connection. I could imagine someone reading this and thinking we're referring to the shared secret here

Author: https://github.com/interledger/rfcs/pull/570/commits/bc04d01cfaddec6cd607b1cb0424390a4272c592 adds more details on Receipt Secret and Receipt Nonce

| Receipt Nonce | UInt128 | A random nonce pre-shared between the verifying party and the receiver used to identify the STREAM connection. |
| Stream ID | UInt8 | Identifier of the stream this receipt refers to. |
| Total Received | UInt64 | Total amount, denominated in the units of the receiver, that the receiver has received on this stream thus far. |

> | Stream Start Time | UInt64 | A UNIX timestamp referring to the time that the stream was established at the receiver. |

Reviewer 2: It's worth considering whether we should use an InterledgerTimestamp here. It still is fixed length, and although it is a little trickier to parse it solves things like leap seconds. That said a unix timestamp is gonna be easier to use in a lot of different environments.

Asset details exposed by this frame MUST NOT change during the lifetime of a Connection.

#### 5.3.15. `StreamReceipt` Frame

| Field | Type | Description |
|---|---|---|
| Stream ID | VarUInt | Identifier of the stream this frame refers to. |

> | Receipt | 65-Byte OctetString | Proof provided by the receiver of the total amount received on this stream |

Reviewer 2: The receipt is kinda treated as a whole object that's passed around, for instance the receipt would be emitted in WM. So I think "grouping" like this can be helpful

> | Receipt | 65-Byte OctetString | Proof provided by the receiver of the total amount received on this stream |

Reviewer 3: Why mandate the exact size of the receipt instead of leaving it open-ended for possible extension?

Author: :+1:
Should we also consider including a receipt version number?
Or could the receipt size be used to check compatibility, such as with receipt support discovery (https://github.com/interledger/rfcs/pull/570#discussion_r395327765)?

Reviewer 2: Perhaps the receipt itself could have a version byte? Size might not be good enough if a future version is variable length. And if the receipt contains its own version info then STREAM doesn't need to emit extra information about receipt version

Author: changed receipt to `VarOctetString` and added version number: https://github.com/interledger/rfcs/pull/570/commits/1633e86180f268e4808f9011610f91b6f325096b

The `Receipt` MUST contain the following fields encoded using the [Octet Encoding Rules (OER)](http://www.oss.com/asn1/resources/books-whitepapers-pubs/Overview_of_OER.pdf):

| Field | Type | Description |
|---|---|---|

> | HMAC | UInt256 | HMAC-SHA256 over all other fields using the 32 byte Receipt Secret, which is pre-shared between the verifying party and the receiver. |

Reviewer 3: Nit: if the `HMAC` was the last field instead of the first, it would be easy to implement serialization with one fewer allocation.

Author: I think I put the hmac first with verification in mind, but it makes sense to me to optimize the serialization.

Author: addressed in https://github.com/interledger/rfcs/pull/570/commits/8df93049769a21a0a8cd59b3d43902574b88e4ce

> | HMAC | UInt256 | HMAC-SHA256 over all other fields using the 32 byte Receipt Secret, which is pre-shared between the verifying party and the receiver. |

Author: Updated the description in https://github.com/interledger/rfcs/pull/570/commits/8df93049769a21a0a8cd59b3d43902574b88e4ce

| Receipt Nonce | UInt128 | A random nonce pre-shared between the verifying party and the receiver used to identify the STREAM connection. |

> | Stream ID | UInt8 | Identifier of the stream this receipt refers to. |

Reviewer 3: FWIW: the ilp-stream spec doesn't guarantee that the stream ID will fit in a UInt8.

Author: Yeah, I based it off the recommended `default max stream ID of 20` in the spec, but we can make it larger if we want.

Reviewer 3: Ah, I missed that. I retract my objection.

| Total Received | UInt64 | Total amount, denominated in the units of the receiver, that the receiver has received on this stream thus far. |

> | Stream Start Time | UInt64 | A UNIX timestamp referring to the time that the stream was established at the receiver. |

Reviewer 2: This lets the verifier set a cache expiry on how long it remembers the highest amount seen for a Receipt Nonce + Stream Id. If we had no timestamp it would need to remember the highest receipt seen forever or else someone could present their receipt a year later and it would still be valid (and they would be credited the full total received instead of the diff of total received - last total received). So a verifier would basically have some reasonable cache expiry and not accept receipts from >cache expiry ago.

> | Stream Start Time | UInt64 | A UNIX timestamp referring to the time that the stream was established at the receiver. |

Reviewer 4: Agree you wouldn't want to honor receipts indefinitely, but couldn't the verifier just cache the timestamp it generated the receipt nonce/responded to the SPSP query and use that to expire its cache? Why should it trust the recipient not to manipulate the timestamp?

> | Stream Start Time | UInt64 | A UNIX timestamp referring to the time that the stream was established at the receiver. |

Author: I like the idea of removing the timestamp from the receipt.
Verifiers can either cache the nonce and SPSP query time or encode the time in the nonce if they prefer to be more stateless.

> | Stream Start Time | UInt64 | A UNIX timestamp referring to the time that the stream was established at the receiver. |

Reviewer 2: :+1: that's a good observation, and saves us from having to specify a timestamp format which I'm a big fan of

> | Stream Start Time | UInt64 | A UNIX timestamp referring to the time that the stream was established at the receiver. |

Reviewer: Did this get resolved?

> | Stream Start Time | UInt64 | A UNIX timestamp referring to the time that the stream was established at the receiver. |

Author: yep, timestamp has been removed https://github.com/interledger/rfcs/pull/570/commits/ff2617a7d1b4ef592426b153d8f10a6b8f0ff180
